These were some of the issues that were unpacked at the AfricaCom technology conference this week, which started on Tuesday at the Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) and will conclude today, with 15000 guests, 450 speakers and 500 exhibitors expected to attend over the three-day period. Members of the local and national governments also spoke at the conference, with Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams speaking about how the government would not be able to work alone in ensuring that South Africa was successful in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Mayco member for economic opportunities, James Vos, discussed Cape Town’s role as a technology hub and the MEC for education, Debbie Schäfer, spoke about skills development for the job market of the future. Aubrey Hruby, the co-founder of Africa Expert Network, and her panel of guests discussed the importance of digital literacy, and how vital it was for people across Africa, and more especially South Africa, to have regular access to internet and low-cost data to build a mindset of innovation. “While people make use of data differently, and while you won’t necessarily see, for example, all farmers researching prices and all the things that people think will enhance productivity in the field, they may enjoy watching Bollywood or downloading sport and making use of the internet for leisure time. There is nothing wrong with this as the leisure economy can also create opportunities for the creative sector,” Hruby said. Alison Gillwald, the executive director of Research ICT Africa (RIA), said that while there was a #DataMustFall movement in South Africa, data was not the only issue the country faced with regards to innovation. “We need to look at how many students do science, technology, engineering and mathematics (Stem) at school and make sure we have wi-fi in all public places and get young people who have an aptitude for coding into software development,” she said. “The Department of Basic Education announcing that robotics and coding would be part of the curriculum is a step in the right direction,” Gillwald said. There were also presentations and discussions around women in technology, with Baratang Miya, the chief executive of Cape Town-based technology companies Uhuru Spaces and GirlHype, speaking about the importance of investing in women who were digital powerhouses. “Even in this day and age, most investors often overlook women in the digital industry.” kauthar.gool@inl.co.za Cape Argus