Cape Town – The City of Cape Town has extended its condolences following the tragic death of crime-fighters. This comes after a 34-year-old sergeant based at the Steenberg police station was shot in Lavender Hill late last night while pursuing a group of suspects. He passed away in hospital. Milnerton residents are reeling from shock following the senseless murder of a volunteer neighbourhood watch member. He was shot in the chest while en route to investigate potential criminal activity. Last night various neighbourhood watch groups gathered to host a “power patrol” in honour of Ignatius van Rooyen, 34, who was killed in Freedom Way, Montague Gardens, on Friday. "My deepest sympathy goes out to family and friends of two members of the safety and security fraternity who died in the line of duty in recent days," mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said. "The South African Police Service has confirmed the death of a sergeant based at the Steenberg police station who was shot in Lavender Hill late last night while pursuing a group of suspects. He passed away in hospital. "The incident happened on the same night that I attended a gathering for the late Ignatius van Rooyen of the Milnerton Ridge Neighbourhood Watch, who tragically lost his life this past weekend when he was shot by suspected hijackers while on patrol in Montague Gardens. "These incidents are among the many murders that have left our city reeling. Gang-related murders, in particular, constitute a serious emergency. "In this regard, the City has called for an urgent meeting with the South African Police Service and the Western Cape Department of Community Safety. We will repurpose all resources at our disposal to assist the SAPS, particularly in known hot spots. "The death of any person at the hands of violent criminals is a tragedy and deserves an outcry from the whole community, but even more so when it is a member of our safety and security fraternity. "The City works closely with neighbourhood watches through our NW Support Programme and we value the work that they do. "The City will do whatever it can to help the family of the fallen member and the rest of the NW fraternity cope with this loss and bring the criminals to justice, because without them our communities would be far less safe for everyone else. "It is heart-breaking that the life of someone as committed as Van Rooyen had to be cut short so abruptly. He was always willing to help everyone around him and make sacrifices for his community. He died doing something that he cared about very deeply." Van Rooyen’s memorial service will be held at Theo Marais Park in Tanzanite Street, Milnerton, at 1pm on Thursday. "While the SAPS have yet to publicly confirm the identity of their fallen officer, I extend my condolences to his family, colleagues and friends and wish them strength during this very difficult time," Smith said. Cape Times