Cape Town - The month of June was chosen for LGBT Pride Month to commemorate the Stonewall riots, which occurred at the end of June 1969. The Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations by members of the LGBTQIA+ community against a police raid that began in the early morning hours of June 28, 1969, at the Stonewall Inn in the Greenwich Village neighbourhood of Manhattan, New York City. As a result, many pride events are held during this month to recognize the impact LGBT people have had in the world. Over the years, there have been an increase in initiatives, festivities, and celebrations held by the queer community. There are also more pop culture moments that add to the zeitgeist. Here are 5 viral pride month videos that the internet the internet has been gushing about. I'm Gay - Eugene Lee Yang Eugene Lee Yang rose to fame being a member of the internet quartet, The Try Guys. Yang has previously come out as queer, but in his viral dance video, he has come out as gay. In his original, deeply personal music video, Yang tells the movie tale of his life, and the societal pressures he faced through dance.   Yang also shared a behind the scenes video, explaining the process behind the video and why he decided to come out as gay.   Nails, Hair, Hips, Heels by Todrick Singer, dancer and actor Todrick Hall has gone viral before. He has previously been a contestant on American Idols and RuPaul's Drag Race. With the release of his latest music project, Haus Party - Part 1, he dropped one of the gayest pop songs to celebrate pride month. He is well known for creating music that has gone on to be pop staples within the LGBTQIA+ community, and his most recent song is perfect examples of this. He has also performed it at a gay pride parade in Los Angeles.   He also didn't shy away from shedding insight into how the music video came together and what efforts were made into its production.   Basically I'm Gay Dan Howell has been one of the world's biggest YouTube sensations, getting massive acclaim for his wry sense of humour. Howell has over 6 million subscribers, and in a 45 minute video, he gives a humour, charming and honest looking into why it has taken him a while to come out. He touches on how homophobia and being in public eye has played a role in him waiting to come out.   Generations React To Dan Howell & Eugene Lee Yang Coming Out On YouTube Reaction videos have really taken off as millenials and Gen Z continue to develop their internet habits, and it was the video reaction to Howell and Yang's powerful pride month videos that also added to the online conversation. In the video, many people who either identity as gay, lesbians, trans or queer were invited to react and while their reactions are fun to watch, it is really their personal coming out stories of the reactors themselves that makes it worth the watch.   Taylor Swift - You Need To Calm Down As LGBTQIA+ acceptance continues to gain momentum globally, more artists are becoming more vocal about their views. One such artist is Taylor Swift, who over recent years has been actively growing more vocal about showing LGBT acceptance and, who roped in some of the biggest face from the queer community into her latest music video. While reactions to the video itself have been somewhat divisive - with a few criticizing Swift's intentions - it still ranks as one of the top pride month videos.   She went viral earlier in the month for performing at the Stonewall Inn in New York.     Catch @taylorswift13's surprise performance of Shake It Off at @TheStonewallNYC with a guest appearance from @jessetyler | #PrideMonth @aegworldwide pic.twitter.com/X3Hw7Li7cM Cape Argus