CAPE TOWN - Every school is community, a network of relationships connecting pupils, educators, parents and guardians to create one big family. And Forest Village Leadership Academy in Blue Downs proved just that when the school community rallied behind the school receptionist Hayley Daniels who was recently diagnosed with breast cancer. Daniels, the receptionist at the Blue Downs school, was diagnosed with Stage 3 inflammatory breast cancer in January this year. Daniels was alerted that something was amiss when her eight-month-old baby would not drink from her left breast. She was diagnosed shortly thereafter at the Tygerberg MAMA Breast Clinic. "The journey thus far has not been easy, but knowing that I have a little baby girl and family to fight for makes it that much easier," Daniels said. She can also count on her school family who on Friday last week came out in support of Daniels when the school arranged to have a  "Shavathon" titled "For Hayley" to raise money for her rising medical bills. Staff at Forest Village Leadership Academy, along with learners, school governing body members, parents and the wider community rallied behind the cause. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The pupils had their hair sprayed by the teachers, but the school hall was moved to tears when, in an emotional scene, Daniels broke down when two of the schools teachers, the janitors and even some of the parents opted to have their hair cut by Daniels herself. "Today means so much to me. I love my colleagues, I love these learners and the way they have supported me means everything to me," Daniels said. "That little hug, the words of encouragement helps me to keep fighting and gives me hope." Kaytlyn Minnies, a Grade 2 teacher at the school, said that she has known Daniels for four years and described her as the light at the school that has always been the positive person that brings people together. "We are just doing what she has always been doing for us, we are here to support her and we believe she will get through this." African News Agency (ANA)