Education MEC Debbie Schäfer released statistics on vandalism at schools over the holidays. Schäfer said 27 incidents were reported by schools across the province, which is down from 33 incidents reported during the same period in 2017. She said none of the incidents were classified as major, but some were costing the department over R50000 a time. “An incident is classified as minor if the estimated cost of repairs is below R100000 and the school’s ability to function is not impacted in any way,” Schäfer said. At one Cape Winelands School, perpetrators stole nine metres of fencing, she said. “How are we supposed to protect our learners from outside elements when school fences are being carried away bit by bit? I am especially calling on communities to report any suspicious behaviour around our schools.” She said it was impossible for perpetrators to remove nine metres of fencing without being seen. Meanwhile, at a city school, thieves targeted a feeding kitchen, stealing over 100kg of food including rice, maize meal, beans and soya. “It is simply deplorable to steal food out of the mouths of our learners. It is also completely irresponsible to damage water infrastructure, given the drought we have been through over the last few years.” At another Metro Central school, they gained access via the roof, damaging the roof and ceiling. The perpetrators ripped out wiring, damaging the school intercom system, and stole ICT equipment from the administration block. Other minor incidents reported included theft of copper pipes, electrical cabling, computer equipment and school stationery. In some incidents, Schäfer said, perpetrators targeted schools simply to destroy property, and left without stealing anything. This malicious behaviour was unacceptable, she said. “Damage to classrooms, school halls and computer labs included theft of and damage to light fittings, windows and sporting equipment.” The estimated cost of damages so far was R400000, with only three-quarters of the estimates having been calculated. “It is devastating that people are prepared to do this to schools when we know the desperate needs in education and the inadequacy of our budget to cope with them.” Schäfer said vandalism did not only come at a cost to the Education Department, but to the learners and the community. She urged community members to “please” be extra vigilant throughout the year and immediately report any suspicious behaviour and activities within the vicinity of their schools. “I would also like to thank the many communities who have taken this seriously and helped us to protect our schools,” she said. sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus