The town’s water supply levels are extremely low, its boreholes are running dry, and residents have received limited bottled water daily. Added to the water woes, the town’s reclamation plant has been switched off due to critical maintenance work, but it was expected to be up and running today. Beaufort West mayor Noel Constable and Local Government MEC Anton Bredell held an emergency meeting in the town on Wednesday. The surrounding towns of Laingsburg and Prince Albert, together with the Central Karoo district municipality, also presented their plans to avert a crisis. Bredell said only 17 of the 40 boreholes were operational. The reclamation plant had worked for two months without maintenance and was at risk of failure if not serviced. The plant provides an estimated 20% of the town’s drinking water. Boreholes provide the rest via town reservoirs, but these were quickly dwindling. “There are many others that go too low, and then it stops working, and that is also a risk in the area. All three municipalities in the region presented their cases and the picture does not look good. "In Beaufort West especially I am concerned. The Leeu-Gamka Dam has dried up, the rainfall doesn’t look good either. "And we also find in some areas of the town that people are still using up to 200 litres of water per day,” Bredell said. He said the provincial and national government departments would be working together to provide relief to the distressed towns. “We are all coming together to work out a plan for the town. The town’s livelihood depends on its water supply, and just like Cape Town, where millions of residents decided to save water, the same must happen in the Karoo areas,” Bredell said. The provincial government, in conjunction with the South African Red Cross Society, has already delivered 2000litres of bottled water to the Beaufort West area. The municipality was also implementing water shedding to allow for the reservoirs to recover. In a notice online, the municipality said reservoirs 1, 2 and 3 were standing at 13%, 28.7% and 11.3% capacity respectively. The municipality was distributing water to the worst-affected areas. “The reservoir levels are monitored daily, and as time proceeds, we will make the necessary water available to affected areas. If the situation reaches a critical level, we have the police and the community development workers in the area. I want to thank the community for their support. May God bless us all,” Constable said. jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus