That’s the message from the Western Cape Education Department, after it emerged that it was investigating a case in which a pupil was kicked out of school due to fees arrears. It’s believed the school demanded that the arrears be paid upfront and in full before the child would be able to attend the school this year. Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said: “A case of a learner who was kicked out of school was brought to our attention and we are in the process of investigating the claim.” Hammond said the school had denied the allegations and that while it encouraged the parents to pay upfront, parents who could not afford to do so immediately could make alternative payment arrangements. She said they had contacted the parent and the pupil was now back at the school. “The South African Schools Act is very clear that no learner can be discriminated against on the basis of not paying school fees,” Hammond said. “Parents can apply for exemption or partial exemption from paying school fees on the basis of their combined annual income.” Hammond said that if they qualified for exemption and if the school fees were more than 10% of the parents’ combined annual salary. Parents could apply for partial exemption if the fees represented between 2% and 10% of their annual salary depending on the number of children they had at a fee-paying, public school. Hammond said that in order for parents to apply for exemption they should submit a form that can be obtained from the school. “We also acknowledge that many of our schools desperately need fee income so we also encourage parents to prioritise their school fee payments when considering their monthly budget expenditure where possible,” Hammond said. The Equal Education Law Centre said every child must have access to a public school, regardless of their background or whether they were able to pay school fees. “In South Africa many schools are not allowed to charge school fees,” it said. However, the law allowed some public schools to charge school fees, but no learner could be turned away from a fee charging public school for not being able to pay, it said. sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus