Max had earlier this year resigned from his job in the Western Cape provincial legislature, where he represented the DA. This came as he was appointed special adviser to Police Minister Bheki Cele, a senior ANC official. Max did not have to leave the DA to take up the position. The DA's Western Cape leader, Bonginkosi Madikizela, had criticised the move at the time, and on Sunday said Max’s decision to join the ANC “didn’t come as a surprise at all”. “I’ve told you long time ago that Lennit ceased to be a DA member on the day he accepted the position of adviser to Cele,” said Madikizela. “Part of the deal was for him to join the ANC at some point. I’m glad he decided to make his political home, the ANC, official. He has been campaigning for the ANC already under the disguise of conducting ‘advisory’ work for the minister.” Max criticised the DA for regarding “political agendas, personal egos and self-interest as more important than the lives of our people”. “It is clear that the people of the Western Cape are good enough only to serve as voting fodder for the DA, but not deserving of a safe environment to live in. As a result I am resigning as a member of the DA with immediate effect,” he said. Max praised President Cyril Ramaphosa and the ANC for “placing the people of South Africa first”. “It is my view that the ANC under the leadership of President Ramaphosa is the only party that can turn around the situation in South Africa. The president has a vision and already set the direction on how South Africa will be governed after the 2019 elections,” he said. Max has previously served as the Western Cape police commissioner. He said the DA disregarded his crime-fighting plans, whereas Cele adopted them. “Minister Cele almost immediately afforded me the opportunity to utilise my skills within the Police Ministry; I am being heard,” he said. “The newly established Anti-Gang Unit, which was launched on November 2 by President Ramaphosa (in Hanover Park), is an example.” “The statements issued by Cape Town mayor Dan Plato and councillor JP Smith (both DA members), that the establishment of the unit is too little, too late, is regrettable. I would have expected they would appreciate any effort to save lives and offer their support to eradicate crime. “The only inference one can draw from their statements is that they would want the status quo (killing of people) to remain for political gain,” Max added. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus