Cape Town - The Beaufort West municipality will be running out of emergency bottled water today, but Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC, Anton Bredell says as far as they are concerned, there is no emergency. According to the Gift of the Givers, they have received an urgent plea for water as the Beaufort West municipality believes that they would be running out of water by Wednesday. The municipality said that is a direct result of the low reservoir levels in the town over the past months that caused that them to distribute the emergency water that was donated by Gift of the Givers for Day Zero and emergency cases. The storage room at the Karoo Recreational Hall is allegedly empty after a peak festive season. The town had 40 boreholes and is now operating on 27 boreholes. The municipality said it is trying everything in its best to encourage citizens to save water through ongoing awareness on the drought situation. However, according to the MEC Bredell, the provincial Department of Local Government is not currently aware of a pressing water emergency requiring immediate bottled water in the towns of Beaufort West and Laingsburg. “Information from our specialists on the ground is that the towns currently have a sufficient supply of piped water. The reclamation plant is working in Beaufort West and there is water in the reservoirs in both towns. Accordingly, there is no emergency at present as far as we are concerned.” Bredell did emphasize that this does not mean there is no water challenges in these towns. “The drought remains ongoing and long-term by nature. It also requires an ongoing concerted effort by all stakeholders to ensure communities do not run out of drinking water,” he said. “We appreciate the assistance of all partners and stakeholders and continue to urge continued cooperation and consultation. As a province it is our role to coordinate the relief efforts and we continue to do so. “If towns have their own arrangements with NGOs and other partners, then that is up to them but we would simply continue to request that we are informed timeously to ensure better coordination of the ongoing relief efforts.” The department suggested that communities in the Karoo region reduce their consumption to 50 litres per day and that the local councils consider applying stricter water restrictions. “We also urge communities to report water leaks and other breaks and technical challenges to their local councils. More than 40% of the water in Beaufort West is unaccounted for, an unacceptable level during a drought,” Bredell said. “This remains the worst drought in recent memory, an unprecedented event. The department has several ongoing interventions in place across the entire region including several experts on the ground monitoring the situation continuously. The department will also be sending another delegation to the towns of Beaufort West and Oudtshoorn this week to further determine the needs on the ground.” Gift of the Givers said that they have dispatched a truck to Beaufort West to deliver water after receiving a request from the municipality. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus