“The community will be notified by notices, registered post, pamphlets and posters and a sector hearing session as well as discussions at the sub-council. “It must be borne in mind that the suggested overlay and the guiding documents have already been formulated. The current process is to update the public comment,” the City’s Mayoral committee member for spatial planning, Marian Niewoudt said. In December, the City of Cape Town’s Mayoral Committee resolved to support the designation of the Bo-Kaap as a Heritage Protection Overlay Zone (HPOZ), and made the recommendation that council approve a public-participation process for the proposal at its council meeting. “To this end, we are preparing official notices and documentation for viewing during the public-participation process,” Niewoudt said. “We want to get this right, that is why we are pushing very hard to mitigate all the pitfalls and to ensure that the process is not flawed,” ward councillor Brandon Golding said. Talks to have Bo-Kaap declared a heritage site escalated last year after residents took part in protests and barred developers from entering the area. At the heart of the matter is the issue surrounding housing as developers buy up property in order to redesign the Bo-Kaap into a trendy urban area. In 2016, the process was halted and the HPOZ for the Bo-Kaap was put on hold indefinitely. In early 2018, Ward 77 councillor Golding submitted another motion to subcouncil 16 requesting that the HPOZ for the Bo-Kaap be implemented with immediate effect and that reasons be given for the delay. “We don’t want anyone to hold back the process or to say that the process was flawed, we want to make sure we get everything right because this is very long overdue,” Golding said. Secretary for the Bo-Kaap Civic and Ratepayers Association Jackie Poking said that the leadership of Bo-Kaap is calling for both the area to have a protection overlay with it to be declared a national heritage site. “We have seen in the past that the City can still approve building plans and that is why we are in support for the two,” Poking said. Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa rallied behind Bo-Kaap residents promising them that the government plans to make the area a “cultural destination for all” last December. Niewoudt said this is a different process to the City’s “Although the processes complement each other, the City’s process provides the guidelines for building and land use development while the national government process provides specific protection to identified buildings and sites. The City has informed the national department of the overlay process,” he added. @Marvin.Charles17 marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus