The book digs even further into Esau’s roots as it recounts how the first Indo-Malay people came to the Cape during the Dutch colonial period. It includes the story of Sheikh Yusuf, who is buried in Macassar and considered Islam’s founder in the Cape. Like other Indonesian resisters to colonisation, he was shipped to the Cape where the Dutch ruled at the time. Esau said for a long time she “needed to know where I came from”. She often found books lacked information about her heritage and focused more on colonial history. “As a teacher, I felt I needed to know myself first, so that I could relate better to the children I’m teaching. “In my classroom in New Zealand, I can have up to 14 different cultures. I wanted to tell them about my culture too.” In 2015, Esau came across a tour, run by a Cape Town-based company, that took South Africans to visit Indonesian landmarks linked to their heritage. I started researching my history. “I found out who I really am. And then I wanted to write the story about how we came to Cape Town. I wanted children to know this.” Esau’s daughter, Kothar Esau, did the book’s illustrations and a launch in Cape Town finally happened on Sunday. Krishna Adi Poetranto, the Indonesian consul-general based in Cape Town, was at yesterday’s launch. He said the book complimented their efforts to “visit local schools to tell children about their Indonesian heritage”. “A lot of prominent Indonesians were exiled to South Arica during the Dutch colonial period. “They fought against colonisation. The people who are buried here are well-known names in Indonesia. They are historical figures. “Indonesians come here to see where they are buried. “They go to the Auwal Mosque and the Tana Baru cemetery (both in Bo-Kaap). “They also go to the grave of Sheikh Yusuf in Macassar. “There should be more South Africans travelling to Indonesia to explore their heritage.” The Indonesian consulate offers free Indonesian language lessons every Tuesday from 6pm to 9pm at its office in Rosmead Avenue in Kenilworth. It also offers bursaries for cultural studies to South Africans who want to explore their heritage in Indonesia. yazeed.kamaldien@gmail.com Cape Argus