Cape Town - The second phase of re-signalling work at Cape Town station will commence on Saturday, January 26 and is scheduled to conclude by Wednesday, January 30th, rail operator Metrorail said. Platforms 1 to 12, as well as platform 24 will be closed for five days while the commissioning work is being conducted. "The re-signalling project is vital to address obsolescence in the rail network. The current signal system is old, heavily copper-reliant and therefor prone to metal theft and vandalism," Metrorail said in a statement. "This new electronic type of signalling relies less on copper technology, provides enhanced operational flexibility and improves operating safety. It has the added advantage that it can be remotely controlled from the recently completed nerve centre in Bellville," it said. Regional manager Richard Walker said the approach to split commissioning in two phases minimises the impact on commuters and increases operational flexibility to offer temporary alternatives. "We express our heartfelt thanks to our commuters for their patience while we work tirelessly to modernise the rail system," Walker said. Commuters can expect similar conditions to the previous commissioning phase; trains will line up for alternative platform assignment on the approach to Cape Town Station. Longer running times will be inevitable. Commuters have been advised to keep pace with updates on Metrorail's social media, or call the toll-free Transport Information Centre 0800 65 64 63. "Commuters registered to receive text alerts are encouraged to share information with fellow commuters," Metrorail said. "Provincial and local stakeholders including organised business, labour, community organisations and commuter representatives have been informed of the anticipated impact of the work at Cape Town Station. The first phase (platforms 13 – 16, 20 - 23) was completed ahead of schedule in December last year.  Platforms 17, 17 and 19 remain closed for repairs and will be commissioned later," it said. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus