Cape Town - Violent clashes between residents from various informal settlements and police has marred the first City of Cape Town full council sitting of the year. Stun grenades were used to disperse the crowd who attempted to gain access to the Civic Centre in Cape Town's CBD. Residents from Ses’khona in Phillipi East, Nkandla in Kraaifontein, Island in Khayelitsha, Qandu-qandu in Khayelitsha and KK Section in Khayelitsha were protesting over their living conditions and the lack of service delivery. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We want (mayor) Dan Plato to come outside and address us that’s why we are here. We want to tell him about our living conditions,” resident Ntombomzi Mafaya said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Plato stepped out of the council meeting to address the residents. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "I will come to all these areas and check up on areas and I will check on the issues. I don’t know the underlying issues in the community but there is extensive work being done and I will make sure I bring the relevant officials with me so that they can respond adequately to you," he told them. He said the visit to the area would happen in the next few days. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus