Cape Town - A row has broken out between MEC for local government Anton Bredell and charity organisation Gift of the Givers over how much potable water there is in the  Karoo town of Laingsburg. Bredell has refuted claims by the organisation that Laingsburg had run out of potable water. Bredell said while concerns were mounting, the fact was that the water being mobilised was to ensure there would be no water shortages. He said the bulk of the water that the Gift of the Givers had been distributing in the province was in fact water that the Western Cape government had either received via donations or acquired for times of crisis. “No single town in the Western Cape has run out of water. Not one. Gift of the Givers has made this inaccurate statement in the past and caused great harm. We have asked them not to state such irresponsible inaccuracies as it causes unnecessary panic and concern. We are saddened that yet again this claim is being made. The fact is that we have been at pains about water challenges at each inconvenience and what happens is that small towns in the Karoo region rely on reservoirs that are filled with water from boreholes. At times – like in the holiday months when these towns are inundated with tourists – these reservoirs empty faster than they get filled,” Bredell said. “At times the province has called on the Gift of the Givers and multiple other partners, to assist with transport and distribution. Where partners are unable to assist, we approach other partners,” Bredell said. Gift of the Givers chief executive Imtiaz Sooliman said he had received frantic calls from Laingsburg. “The main water source, Soutkloof Fountain, has dried up. Very low levels of water in the main reservoir and consumption is more that the inflow owing to holiday makers en route home from Laingsburg Municipality,” he said. Sooliman questioned the preparations the Western Cape Government made for the drought outside Cape Town City. “Why do the municipalities keep calling Gift of the Givers directly for assistance when they are in crisis? Is there a lack of faith within their own hierarchy to get the job done effectively? De Doorns was in trouble in the first quarter of last year. “They requested assistance from Gift of the Givers. We responded immediately with five boreholes producing 800 000 litres per day. Several other boreholes were established in various areas to assist with substantially reduced water levels,” he said. But Bredell hit back, saying Gift of the Givers was welcome to put in requests for funding as long as there was full transparency dealing with public money. “The department has contracted and deployed professional geohydrologists for the past 18 months in the Karoo to assist in managing the situation… The department has also co-ordinated all efforts over the past 18 months with success,” he said. jason.felix@inl.co.za Cape Argus