This, commission spokesperson Sipho Ngwema said, is aimed at making sure that schools are compliant with the Competition Act and ensuring affordable school uniforms. The investigation into anti-competitive behaviour at schools was completed early last year. The probe established that a number of schools still had exclusive contracts with one supplier and that these contracts didn’t go through a competitive and transparent bidding process. “Given the number of schools and other considerations, it was felt that schools must focus on the primary function, which is to educate. The commission was reluctant to drag these schools through a protracted litigation process and distract them from their main function. “We engaged all stakeholders including private schools, suppliers, governing bodies, and the government,” Ngwema said. It was agreed that school uniforms should be as generic as possible, in order to be obtainable from as many suppliers possible; exclusivity should be limited to items that the schools regards as necessary to obtain from pre-selected suppliers, such as badges. The commission also prescribed that schools should follow a competitive bidding process when appointing suppliers and should appoint more than one supplier in order to give parents more options. These agreements should be of limited duration. “Subsequently, the commission signed a memorandum of agreement with school governing body federation Fedsas, aimed at educating and encouraging schools to comply with the guidelines. Further, the commission engaged private schools like Curro, Advtech and Reddam House. The private schools' response and co-operation was phenomenal,” he said. All the parties are expected to make a joint announcement on February 6. Above-inflation school fee increases are leaving families more cash-strapped than ever and struggling to pay for fees, uniforms and stationery. John Manyike, head of financial education at Old Mutual, said 73% of employed consumers claimed that January was a more difficult month financially than December, while 38% said that they stopped paying store cards at the end of the festive season to survive the debt hangover in January. “This means they either reversed debit orders or simply skipped paying their monthly instalments. With back-to-school commitments, some find it difficult to purchase stationery and school uniforms due to a lack of planning in December,” he said. Manyike said consumers should set realistic saving goals. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus