Cape Town - The City of Cape Town will play host to Banyana Banyana and the women’s soccer teams from the Netherlands and Sweden at Cape Town Stadium for their FIFA World Cup preparation matches. "The City would like to extend a warm welcome to all three teams as they do battle on the field in preparation for the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup that will take place in France during June – July this year. We are extremely proud to be the host city for the preparation matches especially since this is the first time that Banyana Banyana have qualified to compete in a FIFA Women’s World Cup," said Cape Town Mayor, Dan Plato. The matches, which will be played in honour of the late Winnie Mandela and Albertina Sisulu, will help the team to prepare for their ultimate battle for the World Cup. "Sport plays an important unifying role by bringing together communities from all walks of life, and is a major contributor to the local economy contributing in excess of R8,8 billion to the Western Cape GDP between 2012 and 2015. The economic contribution is testament to the significant role of sport and sporting tourism in local economic development," said Cape Mayco Member for Economic Opportunities and Asset Management, James Vos. Banyana Banyana will take on Sweden (in a closed session) on Thursday 17 January at the Athlone Stadium. The team will then go head-to-head with the Netherlands in the inaugural Winnie Mandela International Challenge on Saturday 19 January at 15:00. Banyana Banyana will then face Sweden again on 22 January for the Albertina Sisulu Centenary Challenge at 19:00. Both matches will take place at the Cape Town Stadium. "We are indeed honoured to be hosting Banyana Banyana for their World Cup preparation matches. Capetonians are urged to come out in large numbers in support of the beautiful game and our beautiful team, and armed with the ‘gees’ of the 2010 FIFA World Cup. We wish the team well with their preparations, and all the best for the matches in the World Cup later this year," added Vos. At the welcoming event held on Tuesday, Vos reiterated that the City believes that Cape Town is a city of sports-lovers, with top-class sports facilities, a functioning tourism sector and locals who exhibit the best ‘gees’ at sporting events. Therefore, it makes sense for us, together with the Western Cape Government, to cultivate the lucrative sport tourism industry. Besides the players and their support staff, spectators travelling to watch sporting events also contribute millions to the economy. An added benefit is the spend at the city’s tourism attractions and the associated services while visitors are in Cape Town, such as accommodation, transport and the hospitality sector as a whole. It is not always just about the event itself,’ added Vos. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus