Hanekom said these factors resulted in no growth in overseas tourist arrivals last year, when compared to 2017. “The drought affected, in quite a big way, the numbers of people coming to Cape Town, including those from countries mostly in Europe, such as the UK, Netherlands, Germany, and a few others. It was quite dramatic in the second half of the year,” Hanekom said. The drought crisis in Cape Town, and warnings about “Day Zero” caused many tourists to stay away last year, as did the problematic requirements of unabridged birth certificates for minors travelling to South Africa. Mayoral committee member for economic opportunities and asset management James Vos said the City’s tourism efforts had not only resulted in the establishment of new businesses, but also the expansion of existing ones. “I'm excited about the future of tourism in our city. Our department is currently finalising the draft tourism development framework (TDF) for Cape Town which will be out for public participation early in the new year,” Vos said. He said the TDF aimed to develop more community-based offerings that would enhance the existing experience for visitors. “Our focus will be to create sustainable jobs in a depressed economic climate, to create new job opportunities and to put measures in place to ensure long-term growth. The City, in partnership with Cape Town Tourism, is driving an initiative to showcase local neighbourhood businesses and to inspire travel to these growing areas as part of the new ‘Pocket-friendly Cape Town’ campaign (#pocketfriendlycapetown), which provides visitors and locals with tips on interesting things to do and places to see without spending a fortune,” he said. According to recent data released at the African Leaders’ Forum, held under the auspices of the World Travel & Tourism Council in Stellenbosch, Cape Town lost between 15% and 20% of expected tourist arrivals because of the drought, and SAA shed 13% of its seating capacity on international flights between March and September when it dropped several unprofitable routes. It also showed more than 13000 travellers were refused entry to South Africa in the year to June 2016 for failing to meet unabridged birth certificate requirements. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus