Cape Town - The fire in the Overberg area has now started and is making its way to Franskraal. The fire in the Overberg area jumped across the road and had been spreading east towards the Mooiuitsig direction. "The wildfire is currently burning between Gansbaai and Franskraal. It is being pushed by a strong North Westerly wind," the Greater Overberg Fire Protection Association (FPA) said. "Overstrand Municipality Fire & Rescue and Overberg District Municipality Fire & Rescue are on the scene. The public is urged to keep clear of the area to ensure unrestricted access to fire fighting vehicles. "Multiple fires are ongoing in the Overstrand area. These are fanned by extreme wind conditions. Structural protection and evacuation is currently the main focus." Due to the fire, the R44 Clarence Drive Road is closed from Kleinmond to Gordon’s Bay again. The Greater Overberg FPA requested that those in the Sunny Seas area evacuate to Pringle Hall. "Please keep the emergency telephone lines open for the people in need to contact the services. We will provide specific data as it becomes available," they said. Firefighters have been battling to contain a massive blaze in the area that’s been carrying on for several days. City’s fire and rescue spokesperson, Theo Layne, previously said that they would be monitoring possible hotspots for the remainder of the day in the Overberg area. The current fire, however, has moved over from the Overberg municipality into the Overstrand municipality. According to the Greater Overberg Fire Protection Association, the fire was 80% contained; 8270ha were affected. At this point, it remains unknown how many hectares of land have been affected by the fire. The 2018/19 Summer Fire Season officially started in December last year and normally continues until the end of April. WoF in the province has more than 700 firefighters stationed at 27 bases. “Five hundred more firefighters stationed across the country have been placed on national standby to provide relief and assistance where needed,” said WoF spokesperson Lauren Howard. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus