The mayoral committee member for Human Settlements, Malusi Booi, said it would be launching a new housing project later this year. “A project team has been appointed and their scope of work is currently being finalised. “Planning work is expected to commence soon and a project steering committee will be established in due course,” Booi said. He said the city planned on engaging with residents. “The city’s human settlements directorate assists beneficiaries on the city’s housing database, in order of date of application. “Projects are not initiated with any one specific group in mind. A number of new housing projects are starting in Retreat, Strandfontein, Pelican Park and Ottery,” he said. Chairperson of the Vrygrond Development Forum Mike Khumalo, said they have been kept in the dark about the plans. “We have been kept in the dark and we are seeking direction from the city. The recent changes within the city have been a massive set back for us,” he said. Khumalo said that the piece of land they want to occupy is still vacant and residents are adamant they want to move onto that land. In May last year, former mayor Patricia De Lille recommended that tests be conducted on a piece of land that has been at the centre of protests in Vrygrond. At a meeting with community leaders of Vrygrond, De Lille said tests were required to establish whether a buffer zone could be extended. She said the test could take six to 12 months. This raised the ire of residents who rejected it as well as a proposed housing project along Prince George Drive. Protesters looted a bottle store in the area. In May, they targeted a private property, setting three vehicles alight, and petrol-bombed a part of the New World Foundation building in Muizenberg. The mayoral committee member for Spatial Planning and Environment, Marian Nieuwoudt, said the land is part of a larger eco-system of endangered strandveld dunes and wetlands that supports urban infrastructure to enhance environmental health. “The land is already part of the False Bay Nature Reserve and it is managed as a complex multi-functional reserve intended to conserve the unique Cape flora and fauna. “This site is, therefore, an asset and cannot be utilised for housing,” Nieuwoudt said. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus