Cape Town - The illegal drag racing incident that took place on Monday was unnecessary and it should not have happened. This was the response from Executive Manager of the Killarney International Raceway, Des Easom, who emphasised that Cape Town has a venue where Robot Racing is held every Wednesday night in a safe, controlled environment. "The saddest part is that this horrific crash was unnecessary," Easom concluded. "It should never have happened. "In March 2016 the circuit partnered with the City of Cape Town to open the Killarney drag strip to street racers every Wednesday night - at no cost to competitors," he said. "Entry to the venue is R70 per person for both drivers and spectators, and there is no further charge to compete. "No special equipment is needed; any roadworthy, street-legal car can compete, once it has passed a basic safety check and the driver is wearing a crash helmet (which can be hired at the circuit).” "Robot Racing includes all the thrills of street racing at night, but in a safe environment controlled by experienced motorsport marshals and with emergency medical personnel standing by. “More importantly, they aren't placing other, innocent road users in danger.” Eason added that they also hold regular track days for cars and motorcycles on the main circuit. Mayco Member for Safety and Security, JP Smith, revealed that in Cape Town alone there are more than 20 hotspots where racers gather and participate in these illegal activities. "Illegal drag racing takes place on any day of the week, but the busiest nights tend to be Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. "What is happening on our streets is a combination of the following: illegal street racing where two or more vehicles are involved in a race on a public road without written permission from the relevant authority; spinning, where a vehicle spins around in circles resulting in excessive smoke (burning rubber); drifting, where vehicles travel at certain speeds and the driver manipulates the steering causing the vehicle to drift from side to side; and park-offs, where drivers gather in a group to showcase their vehicles and equipment e.g. sound systems, modified engines etc." "Those caught racing can be arrested for reckless and negligent driving. If the vehicle that they are driving is modified or does not meet the roadworthy standards, it can be impounded. The vehicle’s licence token can also be destroyed and the owner can be compelled to report to a vehicle testing station within 14 days with the vehicle in a roadworthy condition." He added that if residents see illegal drag racing taking place, they should assist by identifying the drivers, noting the registration numbers and relevant distinguishing marks of the vehicles, and lodging a case for investigation with the SAPS. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus