Cape Town - Subsequent to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Senzeni Zokwana’s meeting with industry, the technical task team met on Wednesday, 16 January 2019 to share information and advice on the Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) outbreak in Limpopo. After setting out the terms of reference, the technical task team agreed on the following:   Two sets of teams have started work in the area, with 17 vaccination teams working in the possibly infected areas conducting inspections and vaccinations; four inspection teams are working to ‘clean’ the area to determine the extent of the outbreak; 4 021 animals in nine villages have been vaccinated so far. To date, the disease has been confirmed in two villages. Following reports of clinical signs, three more villages are being followed up; with samples submitted to the laboratory and results expected early next week. The Limpopo Department of Agriculture has provided feed to the affected animal owners, and letters have been sent to 20 of our trade partners. Trade of especially processed products is starting to flow. DAFF wishes to reiterate the movement restriction in the disease management area of Vhembe. No live cloven hooved animals are allowed to move into, within, through and out of the area. Law enforcement has been reinforced and any animals found to be moved around will be confiscated by the police and destroyed. This area has the following boundaries: Law enforcement has been reinforced and any animals found to be moved around will be confiscated by the police and destroyed. This area has the following boundaries. The DAFF has reassured consumers that the products on the shelves are safe for consumption. The reason trade is interrupted is because FMD is a highly trade sensitive disease which calls for trade partners to suspend trade with countries infected. DAFF is confident that this is a temporary setback, and is working with industries to motivate the resumption of trade in safe products. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus