Cape Town - Tyrone Prinsloo, the man accused of stabbing Wynberg children’s author, Dianne Case, 14 times, will spend the next two months in jail after the case was postponed for further investigation. On Tuesday, Prinsloo, 31, whose bail was denied, appeared in the Wynberg Magistrates’ Court where he faced a charge of attempted murder and hijacking.The case was postponed to March 13, after State prosecutor Nicky Konisi said the prosecution still had outstanding statements to collect. She said DNA needed to be taken from the clothes worn by Prinsloo on the day of the incident and a J88 form was still outstanding. At the next court date Prinsloo won’t physically attend the hearing but he will appear via the Audio Visual Link. Both Case and Prinsloo’s family were in attendance. Case’s daughter, Maxine Case, said her mother had been receiving a lot of support from the public. Case, 63, who had been volunteering at Pollsmoor Prison for about 10 years was attacked on December 28 near Wynberg Park at the corner of Claassen Waterloo Road. She was with Prinsloo in the car, a man she and had helped him improve his life by offering him a place to stay at her ex-husband’s home. On the day of the incident, Prinsloo went to Case’s home pretending to need a lift to get to an ATM where he would withdraw money he said he owed Case. He first told her he wanted a Nedbank ATM, but when the car approached the nearest garage with the specific machine he changed his mind and wanted a Capitec machine. Along the way he asked Case to stop the car. She parked at the Wynberg Park where he started sobbing. “He then asked me to go with him to the toilet and I refused. He said let’s go to a garage where he could use a toilet. We drove off. As I was about to turn the corner of Claassen Waterloo Road, I looked to see if I can turn right and when I looked back he was over me with a knife,” she said. Case sustained 14 stab wounds, some to the neck, hands and one to the back of her head. Case managed to escape the attack and Prinsloo fled in her car. He was arrested on the same day after being caught by the local neighbourhood watch. zodidi.dano@inl.co.za Cape Argus