Cape Town - Brackenfell police have called on the public to assist in finding a woman who has been missing since Wednesday. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said 56-year-old Noellene Gouws went missing from her home in Vredekloof at about 5pm. He said Gouws was last seen by her son, who reported her missing on Friday afternoon, after she did not return home. Van Wyk said she has long blonde hair, blue/green eyes and is of light complexion. She is about 1.68m tall and weighs about 60kg. “At the time of her disappearance she was neatly dressed in grey three-quarter pants, a white patterned shirt and sandals.” He said Gouws left her home driving her silver Opel Corsa 1300 IS with registration number CA 923 834 with yellow number plates. Anyone with information is asked to contact Sergeant Danie Qundana of Brackenfell SAPS on 076 695 3851 or 021 980 5729/980 5737/983 1940. On Friday, in Beaufort West, the Stock Theft Unit arrested a 23-year-old foreign national for not having documents to own wild animals. Van Wyk said that after a tip-off, police searched the man’s room and found 21 scorpions, two spiders and two earwigs, all of which were alive. The spiders and insects were seized and handed over to Nature Conservation. The man was in custody and due to appear in court in Prince Albert today. Van Wyk said the street value of the spiders and insects were estimated at R16 000, but the amount would be determined by Nature Conservation today. Two suspects were expected to appear in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court today for the possession of property presumed to be stolen and the possession of vehicle-breaking implements. Meanwhile, the Rondebosch and Wynberg Cluster Crime Prevention Unit arrested a 35-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman on Friday. Van Wyk said police responded to an alert in Rondebosch from the Licence Plate Recognition User Group of a Blue Citi Golf, registration number CA 282271, sought by police in a case of theft out of a motor vehicle. He said the police found the vehicle on Southern Exit Road (UCT). The occupants had parked close to Rhodes Memorial Zoo parking, “a current hot spot for theft out of motor vehicles”. Van Wyk said a 35-year-old male and a 30-year-old female were detained. “Inside the vehicle, confiscated items were positively linked to a Claremont case of theft out of a motor vehicle,” he said. sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus