Cape Town - The Deputy President of the ANC, David Mabuza, has solemnly pledged to Rivonia Trailist, Denis Goldberg, that the ANC will return to its former glory. Presenting him with the ANC’s highest award, Isithwalandwe, in his Hout Bay home on Wednesday, January 23, 2019. Deputy President Mabuza praised him as being a member of a golden generation and a legend. Deputy President Mabuza said that he had accepted the award on Goldberg’s behalf at the launch of the ANC Manifesto earlier in January. Mabuza said: “This award is a very special award. We’re very happy about this man. This man stands for what the ANC was. I’m not very sure today whether he is happy about the ANC because we might have gone astray many a time along the way. The ANC of their time was the greatest movement. We’re trying by all means to emulate them and I’m sure one day we’ll make it. But we are not going to fail you. We’ll try our best to work for the people, especially the downtrodden, the poor of our country. Goldberg said that the award was not only for him, but also for his late wife Esme, as well as the many people who had been part of the liberation struggle and brought South Africa out of the darkness of apartheid. “To be honoured in my lifetime is better than coming to spook you. I’m happy about what’s happening today. I’m really deeply moved. I think it’s a recognition of the role of a whole generation of people who brought us out of the darkness of apartheid." Of the ambitions he has left, Goldberg said: “I want to see the building of my arts and culture training centre called House of Hope in Hout Bay where young people can come and learn to draw and paint and express themselves. We must get them off the streets and out of the hands of drug dealers. All my painting and books will belong to the museum.” Other recipients include anti-apartheid icon Sophia de Bruyn, and late party stalwarts Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Ahmed Timol, Albertina Sisulu and ANC Women’s League founder Charlotte Maxeke. Acting Western Cape ANC chairperson Khaya Magaxa and provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs were also at the ceremony with the Deputy President. Magaxa said: “He’s like Mandela. He’s one of the founders of the generation that fought for freedom for all our people. He served his time in Pretoria prison. Because he is white he was cut off from his fellow Rivonia Trialists who were on Robben Island. That was psychological cruelty.” Jacobs added: “He is a fighter for social justice. He stood for a struggle that was non-racial. I’m happy that he could achieve this award in his lifetime.” SUPPLIED argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus