Cape Town - An Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) student member is set to appear in the Bellville Magistrate Court on Thursday, 24 January 2019 for illegally wearing an item of SANDF uniform. The South African National Defence Force (SANDF) had lashed out at an EFF student member, who attends the University of the Western Cape (UWC), for wearing a SANDF camo shirt while being interviewed on eNCA on Monday morning. SANDF explained in a statement that it is emboldened by the vigilance of the South African Military Police Agency who recently arrested and handed over the 20-year-old Western Cape man to law enforcement agencies. The man was allegedly seen on national television wearing an item of the uniform of the constitutional armed forces of the Republic of South Africa without authorisation. "The arrested person was released on a warning to appear before the Bellville Magistrate Court on 24 January 2019," the SANDF spokesperson Brig Gen Mafi Mgobozi said. "The SANDF uniforms and related items are registered for use solely by regular force, reserve force and honorary members of the SANDF in execution of their duties as stipulated in the SA Constitution and civilians/non-members of the country’s military are prohibited by law to wear such uniforms." The Defence Act 42 of 2002, Section 104 (5) and (6) stipulates that: “Any person who, without authority, possesses or wears prescribed uniforms distinctive marks or crests, or performs any prohibited act while wearing such uniform or with such uniform, distinctive marks or crests, is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine or imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years.” It further continues to state that: “Any person who, without authority, uses or is responsible for the use of any name, title or any other symbol of the Department, where such use is calculated or likely to lead people to infer that it has been authorised under this Act, is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine or imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years.” Mgobozi added that in the spirit of the preservation of the integrity of the SANDF and ensuring that no ill-intended persons violate the security of the people of South Africa, all residents are urged to report all sightings of illegal wearing of the military uniform to law enforcement officials - who will act and apprehend such persons. "This is a standing practice and a measure to prevent unauthorized persons from wearing these uniforms, and commit heinous crimes that endanger the livelihood and lives of the people of South Africa and bring the good name of our security forces into disrepute," Mgobozi said. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus