The six-day event started on Saturday in Mandela Park Sports Stadium. Khayelitsha. There were also events at the V&A Waterfront and a night shooting at Sunrise Beach in Muizenberg. The event is to honour the men and women killed in the line of duty and those who continue to serve the country. SANDF spokesperson Mafi Mgobozi said: “During the Armed Forces Festival, the public is afforded an opportunity to interact with the men and women in uniform and are exposed to the capabilities of our country’s state-of-the art military equipment.” Mgobozi said the Armed Forces Festival was also a platform to test the SANDF’s logistical capabilities and state of readiness. The Armed Forces Day 2019 fan park was officially opened by SANDF Chief of Staff Vusi Masondo. Mgobozi said the fan park was an entertaining and informative experience. “Its state-of-the-art military hardware and capability demonstration promises to keep the public on its toes with a wide range of exhilarating activities.” Some of the adrenalin-driven activities at the fan park included aerobatic displays by the Super Falcons, static displays of state-of-the-art military hardware, a free-falling demonstration by paratroopers, rapid bridge building demonstrations by army engineers, a mock attack demonstration by air and ground-based elements, gun run, sword drills, precision drills, a hostage release operation simulation and a martial arts demonstration. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The SA Army had an array of assets including long-range artillery guns, tanks and armoured cars, bridge-building and water purification capabilities, advanced battlefield surveillance and intelligence capabilities, ground-based air defence capabilities and battle-winning infantry skills,” Mgobozi said. “The SA Air Force has a number of assets, comprising ground and air crew, general support staff, command and control personnel, inclusive of communication, and safety and planning elements.” Mgobozi said that among the platforms on display are helicopters - the Agusta A109, Oryx, Rooivalk and Super Lynx. The Gripens and Hawks jet fighters and the transport fleet comprising the CASA 212, King Air and PC 12 will also feature. The event coincides with the commemoration of the sinking of the SS Mendi on February 21, 1917, when more than 600 South African men perished in the icy waters of the English Channel, of which 607 were from the SA Native Labour Corps and 33 were crew members. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus