Cape Town - The City of Cape Town welcomes the start of the Goodwood social housing project which is expected to deliver 1 050 rental housing units. It demonstrates social housing in action and what is possible when partners in government and the private sector work together. Social housing, which offers affordable rental units for families with a combined monthly income of between R1 500 and R15 000, is one delivery model that the City is driving hard they said. The Goodwood Station Social Housing Development project, worth R380 million, is a collaborative effort between the national and provincial Departments of Human Settlements, the Social Housing Regulatory Authority (SHRA), the City of Cape Town, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA), Intersite Asset Investments and the National Housing Finance Corporation, among others. The government subsidy contribution to this social housing project is approximately R280 million. The City has provided development facilitation support and various incentives to contribute to the financial viability and operational sustainability of this social housing development.     WATCH: Minister of Human Settlements NomaIndiya Mfeketo has also arrived. @TheCapeArgus @IOL pic.twitter.com/L2qbEH5Lhz "It is quite symbolic that the site for this development is on the Goodwood Train Station site. This is fully in line with our strategy of positioning housing developments and social housing opportunities closer to smaller city centres and transport hubs. "We must continue working towards reversing the legacy of apartheid spatial planning by promoting transport-oriented development. At the same time, we must work towards creating affordable and inclusionary housing on well-located land close to public transport and job opportunities, as is the case with this new project. In addition, we must plan and cater for a wide range of income groupings to respond to the increased demands of urbanisation," Malusi Booi, Mayco Member for Human Settlements. "We continue to assess City-owned land, including in and near the Cape Town CBD, among others, to determine whether some of these properties could be developed for housing opportunities – be it for transitional, affordable, social housing, or State-subsidised BNG housing. "There are no quick fixes but we are absolutely committed to building integrated communities with different types of residential developments based on a mix of income groups and circumstances. "The development and availability of affordable rental accommodation in central areas of the city is pivotal to the future development of Cape Town," Booi said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus