Cape Town - South Africans find themselves stuck in load shedding hell, with Eskom implementing Stage 3 load shedding on Wednesday from 8am to 11pm as a result of a shortage of capacity. The shortage was a result of a number of generating units that are out of service due to breakdowns, the power utility said. Even President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed anger and shock at Eskom's latest round of load shedding. Speaking at the African Union heads of state summit in Addis Ababa on Monday, the president said he announced the unbundling of the power utility because he realised that Eskom was in "a danger zone". Ramaphosa said the news that there are six generators which are not functioning properly was "shocking". Eskom, which has asked NERSA for annual tariff increases about three times the consumer inflation rate over the next three years, has warned that this latest phase of load shedding could last until April. While everyone has been enjoying their contemplation time due to the frequent load shedding, many decided to use the time to come up with memes.     Who called it Load Shedding and not Eskommel?      Are there any areas in Cape Town that don't get load shedding? If so, what is the ratio of K-way and North Face jackets compared to houses?      #ValentinesDatesGoneWrongVideos power cut pic.twitter.com/0DukZYJGaX      my friends and i not knowing what to do when loadshedding hits pic.twitter.com/57gt9X0ezo      Durban’s load shedding is mad real. 3 times yesterday and again this morning.**i wish I was talking about my sex life and not black outs.      When load shedding demon hits your area but your phone battery is at 98% pic.twitter.com/5zClv6CExS      Him : Come over Her : But there’s load shedding ? Him : I have a generator Her : pic.twitter.com/ptJn2uZKEP      Loadshedding pic.twitter.com/yLwpp9adgj      me @ the kettle 3 minutes before loadshedding pic.twitter.com/8LCOyjrqbI      Updated load shedding schedule. pic.twitter.com/ChY3lsPAlW      Today I chilled with my family because there was load shedding they not bad people yaz 😅#LoadShedding pic.twitter.com/5AXZrHhxXP      Dear EskomVoetsek. Yours Faithfully We the People#eskom #loadshedding      Some of us will watch date my family here on Twitter because of Load- shedding #loadshedding #DateMyFamily pic.twitter.com/diYSmIHKTA      Lol😂 #Eskom #Loadshedding pic.twitter.com/thb45rHQHP      When you have a power cut you can still cook your beans😂😂 pic.twitter.com/oderVHKWzC  argusnews@inl.co.za Cape Argus