Cape Town - On Monday the SA Weather Service issued a warning of severe weather that will impact the Cape Peninsula in the coming days. The Western Cape disaster management centre was also alerted by the SA Weather Service that the adverse weather is expected until Tuesday, due to the two cold fronts are rapidly moving towards the Cape. The Disaster Operations Centre said it has received reports of flooding in formal and informal areas, but are conducting assessments and will provide an update later. The SA Weather Service also issued a warning that snowfall is expected over the Karoo Hoogland area, in the Cederberg as well as on the Langeberg mountain ranges in the coming days. The cold weather was no more apparent than on Tuesday morning when Capetonians couldn't help but vent about their frustrations, and irritations. As is often the case in Cape Town, any form of extreme weather conditions have its residents going a bit wonky:     Cape Town Weather looking very stormy and windy in Lagoon Beach @CapeTalk @TrafficSA Hope everyone is safe !!!💦💦💦#freshbreakfastshow pic.twitter.com/KvIq4VhsyE     I dug out my #Kilimanjaro jacket for this #CapeTown weather. But there is a uncle at the bus stop with a short sleeve shirt. 😳     Yes! I saw the closed sign as I drove into the city     I was driving this morning asking myself "What am I trying to prove by going to work? To whom? For what?"     Outraged that I’m expected to go to uni in this weather. What kind of scam is this     PSA for Capetonians: we all have the weather app, we can see it's raining. Sshhh now. Thanks.     When the weather just makes work difficult 😴 pic.twitter.com/8WvfXDpdDg     This CPT weather finna train me to become an Avenger pic.twitter.com/Dwv7qmLI7k     Of course I would have no meetings yesterday but then have three meetings with today's weather. pic.twitter.com/hejPfvfbHJ There were some sharing advice for drivers to be more cautious on the roads, and others concerned abvout the less fortunate:     Terrible weather conditions in CapeTown,however I’m feeling safer with All Wheel Drive In slippery tarmac , please do drive extra careful and cautions out there capetonians and maintaining safe following distance at all times and be visible by switching your headlights on. pic.twitter.com/DYfE9txvQ2     There's way too many churches for people to be sleeping outside on pavements in this cold rainy weather Cape Argus