The second, and final, round robin of the Cape Argus High Schools Quiz, sponsored by Food Lover’s Market in association with IIE’s Varsity College, took place on Monday and had 79 teams, from 36 schools, going against each other across the peninsula at six ­designated venues. Fairbairn College, in Goodwood, played host to four groups, where four teams per group battled it out. In group 15, it turned out to be a battle between Fairbairn and Bishop Lavis High School, with the latter coming out on top. In group 16, it was High School Quiz aficionados Darul Islam Islamic High School and Maitland High School who appeared to be dominating. Group 15’s battle was a close one, with Fairbairn losing to Bishop Lavis by four points, and the pupils knew exactly how that happened. "We were second guessing ourselves the entire time," said Asiya Sonday from Fairbairn. "And the end of the day, you don't want to lose 3 marks for the wrong answer," added teammate Chloe Joubert. "It's quite a blow to your confidence if things are going well and then that's 3 points down the drain." Brent Marheze from Fairbairn also added: "We've also been in that position before where we've been in the lead, and then we answered a question wrong which resulted in us getting knocked out." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "The questions are more in depth this year, which makes it a little bit harder," Marheze said. "It keeps you on your toes the whole time." Up for grabs is R3000 per team member of the winning team, along with R35000 for their school, and many other prizes. The top two teams will then go on to compete in the National High Schools Quiz, against teams from across the country. Participants should keep track of the Cape Argus High Schools Quiz Facebook page for more information on this year’s competition. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. argusquiz@inl.co.za Cape Argus