This is the stark message by the Fix The Patent Laws Coalition (FTPLC), which includes the Treatment Action Campaign, Doctors Without Borders (MSF), Section 27 and the South African Non-Communicable Diseases Alliance when they launched a global campaign calling on pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to lower the price of its TB drug, bedaquiline, to less than R15 a day for people in need of it across the world. TB kills 29513 (6.5%) of South Africa's population every year, according to Statistics SA. The Western Cape Health Department said: “South Africa falls under the 27 high-burden drug-resistant countries, which means we have at least 4000 cases of multi-drug resistant TB each year and at least 10% of cases reported are MDR-TB.” According to MSF, bedaquiline is one of the only three effective MDR-TB drugs to be developed in over 50 years. MSF media liaison and southern Africa links co-ordinator, Angela Makamure, said: “Lowering the price of bedaquiline will enable a scale-up of drug-resistant treatment and reduction of deaths.” “Currently, J&J charges double the price that MSF is asking, about R5400 ($360), for a six-month course for countries eligible to buy the drug through the Global Drug Facility (GDF),” said Makamure. GDF operates out of a UN agency. “Researchers from the University of Liverpool have calculated that bedaquiline could be produced and sold at a profit for much less, as little as 25 cents a day, if at least 108000 treatment courses were sold a year. At $1 a day, the price of bedaquiline would be $600 per person for the 20 months of treatment that many DR-TB patients require.” Responding to FTPLC campaign, Abeda Williams, senior director, medical and technical affairs, Janssen South Africa (a Johnson subsidiary) said: “In July 2018, South Africa became the first country in the world to recommend a bedaquiline-containing, injection-free regimen for all MDR-TB patients. In recognition of the country’s leadership, we announced, alongside then health minister Aaron Motsoaledi, a not-for-profit price of $400 for bedaquiline, which was a nearly 50% price reduction for a six-month course of our medicine.” The FTPLC also claimed: “Bedaquiline was developed with considerable taxpayer, non-profit and philanthropic support. Despite this joint R&D effort by the global TB community, J&J alone owns the patent on the drug in many countries” However, Williams rejected this: “ the company fully funded all 14 studies that were included in the initial submission to the FDA.” mwangi.githahu@inl.co.za Cape Argus